OK.
Now as a Java developer you have several templating technologies to choose from.
Now if you're not familiar with templates that's the technology we use to generate dynamic hastening
e-mail when we're points up in our database and we put it on a web page.
In this lecture I'm going to introduce you to timely.
Now I want to point out that it is pronounced time leaf not famed leaf.
My first started using timely I was mistakenly calling it time leaf.
And you can go on to YouTube on my channel and I do have an early video where I was calling it timely
from the video and somebody called me out on it.
So it happens now time leaf is a Java template engine.
It's an alternative to Java server pages and there's actually a number of alternatives to GSP.
We can choose from.
And I'm guessing it's because Jay disputes are just so awful to work with I haven't used Jaspers forever.
So I hate them.
The first stable release of time leaf came out in 2011.
The current releases on Version 3 which includes some very cool features for reactive springs and spring
five.
Now time leaf is known as a natural template engine meaning you can view the templates naturally in
your browser.
This module we're going to take a quick look at running a simple HCM and page to show a list of books
we're only doing a quick introduction to time leaf in this video.
There's a lot more to it.
I actually have a whole course on timely and we're going to see a lot more of time live in this course.
But like some of the new reactive programming stuff in spring five I'm kind of excited to get to that
personally.
But for now that's a whole different subject.
I mean jump over to Intelligence.
And we're going to take a look at our first time live template can this video we are going to get timely
cooking.
And the first thing that we need to do is bring in the Spring Boot starter for time.
Now this is very important.
If you do not do this step this will not work.
So things will definitely not work if you do not bring in the starter.
So you can see here on the screen online 33 I've added in the Maven dependency for the Spring Boot starter
for timely and let's come over to the Maven window and take a quick look at that line expand this out
a little bit so you can see here.
That's the Spring Boot starter for timely and it's emitting the Spring Boot starter but it's also bringing
in the time leaf jar for spring and then time leaf extra so which include some Java a time.
So again this is the curated dependency for timely from the Spring Boot folks to bring in the timely
dependency so it takes all the thought out of what we need to do.
Well let's go ahead and resize this collapse at so let's come over here to templates so by default Spring
Boot is going to look under templates for time leaf templates.
I've set up a directory called Books and list HDMI all and this list HMO.
This is the view that I want to render for a books list right now.
This is just a simple HCM old document nothing timely about it.
I'm going to add that in this video I'm just saving us a little time.
I don't think he guys wanna I sit here and watch me type out this entire e-mail document but you can
see just standard dating e-mail nothing particularly earth shattering here.
Let's toggle over to Chrome real quick and here is that list.
This is not a simple document in the book studies GMO and you can see it's just simple book list.
It's got a couple of Asian animal elements and then I am showing one thing and the list so very simple
Asian e-mail document.
We're not doing any styling or anything like that at this point.
So let's jump back over to ontology and I am going to start making this into a timely document.
I remember eating them out is a subset of X AML.
And what I want to do is come up here and I'm gonna pay something in off my clipboard and this is the
time leaf namespace.
So what I'm doing is I'm adding in the tag T H that's going to reference the time leaf namespace so
that's gonna give me timely extensions to this Excel document and that's how time life is gonna work
it's gonna work through attributes out of that X simple namespace which tells time leaf to do stuff.
So there's a number of things that time leaf does.
We will be getting into a lot of the future is a time leaf coming up in the course we are just going
to look at setting up a very simple thing here and what we want to do is under our table row here for
the the content we are gonna do a timely iterator and what we want to do is timely each.
So that sets up in each iterator and we're gonna say for book
1 and here I want to get the books attribute from model so I mean to say books.
So this is how we are asking the model to give us the property of books and this is syntax or time leave
to say I want an iterator over books.
Now the next thing we want to do is come down here to these elements and what's going to happen is for
each book time life is going to render this element.
And so it's going to iterate through and render that element for each book that it finds and the list
of books that we added to the model.
So now what we want to do is tell time leave to replace these elements.
So I mean it's a timely text.
And here I want to tell it the property that I want to do Dollar Signs squiggly I don't know what those
brackets are called officially I'm gonna say book I.D. and just copy this as speed things up a little
bit.
I'm back here pacer and I want the book Total and finally we want to show the publisher name and here
remember publisher is a.
An object that is on the book object so we want to say and we are going to navigate that object graph
through the dot notation and we'll see a name like so.
Now there's one other change that we need to make here to the code and right now until Jay is flagging
this because it doesn't understand what that property is we haven't told it about it.
There's some things that we can tell until Jay what.
We'll get to that in a future video.
So don't worry about until Jay flagging this it just doesn't know what that book property is.
Now we do need to make one change to the book controller because right now we are returning back to
books and actually we want top books list.
So that is going to tell it to look for the list template inside the directory.
Books now let's go ahead I think that does everything.
So let's go ahead and start this up
so we can see that we are up and running on port 80 80 toggle over to Chrome and here's local host books.
Let's resolve that and we can see here.
We are getting our book list now I.D. properties.
So remember these are the two objects that we had in the database domain driven designed and J to e
development without J.B. from the publisher S.F. G publishing.
So that is the values that we are having outside or from the database.
So I mean come in here and take a look at the view view page source and we can see here these are the
elements that timely generated dynamically so we had two objects in that list that we are returning
back to the view layer timely from whenever that was iterated and created these elements of a comeback
or two ontology and take a look at that list you can see that this element was created for every item
in the books list.
Now there is one thing that I do want to point out.
We made a small mistake here.
We are getting into a circular reference and right now if we run our two string method we will get unhappiness
through a circular reference so we want to remove this book's property from our two string method because
if that runs right now that will get into an infinite loop.
And we also want to remove authors from that property.
So that is something I found a mistake that we made in our testing and I think publisher publishers.
OK so we're not iterating over the books properties some.
Sometimes when you get into circular reference on our two string method you got to be careful.
That can be problematic and it's very very easy mistake to make.
So just to recap what we've covered in this lesson first thing was to add in the time leaf starter very
important if you are following along and you forget this I guarantee it will not work because your project
knows nothing about timely and underneath the covers.
Spring Boot is doing configuration to support the time leaf template engine because once you add that
dependency on the class path Spring Boot will perform the auto configuration magic to make it work for
you and apply sensible default.
So if you miss that absolutely will not work.
Next thing was we added in this list ECMO.
So we added in this a document and we converted it to be a timely template so remember Time Life is
a natural templating engine works from an HMO document via the timely namespace.
So the T H cone those are timely directives to tell timely how to render this document.
And then finally because we put this under templates books list aging email we made a small change to
our controller and we are telling it to return back books list.
So that's going to tell the viewers over to look for a template under the directory books called list
and then you don't have say list a steam I'll just list is perfectly fine actually I think it might
break it if you do list out 80 miles so you definitely won't be doing that.
And that is how the viewer solver finds the time leaf template to render the Asian email to our client.
All right so that is a quick introduction to timely so you can see how nice it is to work with when
you have a natural Temple doing so and you can do your development on Easter email and toggle over and
see your changes right away inside the browser.
You saw what a clean language it is too.
We only went in about this deep onto timely footnotes capabilities but as a quick example I was able
to take an object out of the database using spring data JPA run it through Spring MVC to the timely
for you layer where we had a list of Po Joes and we rendered that list on a web page so you can see
it once once we got this down it's a pretty seamless process to develop web applications using the spring
framework.